Call for Papers

The 6th Smart Card Research and Advanced Application IFIP Conference, organized by  IFIP
Working Groups WG8.8 and WG11.2, will be part of the 18th IFIP World  Computer  Congress
(www.wcc2004.org), held in Toulouse, August 22-27, 2004.
Since 1994, CARDIS has been the premier international research  conference  dedicated  to  smart
cards and their applications.  Every  two  years  the  scientific  community  meets  together  for  the
conference. Ten years  after,  like  its  predecessors  and  back  to  Europe  and  France,  CARDIS'04  will
bring together researchers and  practitioners  in  the  development  and  deployment  of  smart  card
technologies and applications.
The smart card, or, by extension, smart device with its  processing  power  and  link  to  its  owner,  is
the good candidate for  the  person  representation  in  the  Information  Society.  Smart  card  or  smart
device will be the potential human representation or delegate in  Ambient  Intelligence  (Pervasive
Computing), where every appliances and computers will be connected, and  where  control  and  trust
of your environment will be the next decade challenge.
Smart card research is of increasing importance  as  the  need  for  information  security  increases
rapidly, especially in response to new and urgent demands. Smart card with its  security  features  is
a seed  of  secure  system  and  will  play  a  huge  role  in  ID  management.  In  many  computer  science
areas, smart cards introduce new dimensions  and  disciplines.  Disciplines  like  hardware  design,
operating system, modeling system,  cryptography  or  distributed  systems  find  new  areas  of
applications or issues but also smart cards create new challenge for these domains.
Unlike events devoted to commercial and application aspects of smart cards, CARDIS conferences
gather researchers and technologists who are focused in all aspects of the design, development,
deployment, validation and application of smart cards or smart personal devices.


Conference scope

The  program  committee  seeks  papers  describing  the  design,  development,  application,  and
validation of smart card technologies. Submissions across a broad range of smart card development
phases  are  encouraged,  from  exploratory  research  and  proof-of-concept  studies  to  practical
application and deployment of smart card technology.
Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:
    *    Smart Device, Person Representation and Ambient Intelligence
    *    Smart Device, Identity, Privacy and Trust
    *    Smart Card and Smart Device software (OS, VM, API...)
    *    High-level data model and management (On-card data sharing schemes...)
    *    Integrated development environments (automatic mask & application generation)
    *    (Distributed) Application development and deployment
    *    Emerging opportunities for standardization
    *    From Smart Card to Smart Device (hardware, form factor, display...)
    *    Biometrics and Smart Cards
    *    High-speed, small-footprint encryption
    *    Cryptographic accelerators                                                                                  
    *    Cryptographic protocols for Smart Cards (and Smart Devices)
    *    Attacks and countermeasures in hardware and software                                              
    *    Hardware, software and service (application) validation and certification
    *    Formal Modelling                                                                                 
    *    Benchmarking                                                                                      
    *    Smart Card (Smart Device) and Applications in Internet, WLAN, DRM,...                             


Instructions for paper submission

Submitted papers should represent novel contributions related to the topics listed  above.  They  must  be  original,  unpublished,  and  not  submitted  to
another conference or journal for consideration of publication. Papers must be written in English; they should be at most 16  pages  long  in  total,
including bibliography and well-marked appendices. The paper should be intelligible without its appendices. When appropriate, authors  should  arrange
for a release for publication from their employer prior to submission. Papers  accompanied  by  non-disclosure  agreement  forms  are  unacceptable  and
will be returned to the author(s) unread. Accepted papers will be presented at the conference and published in the conference  proceedings,  by  Kluwer
Academic Publishers. At least one author of each accepted paper is required to register with the conference and present the paper.
Abstract and papers must be submitted in electronic form through the web to www.wcc2004.org/cardis.  All  submissions  will  be  acknowledged
automatically by e-mail. If you have not received an e-mail acknowledgement  within  72  hours  of  submitting  your  paper  or  abstract,  please  contact
cardis-submission@wcc2004.org. To submit a paper, you must first submit  an  abstract  by  February  9,  2004.  After  abstract  submissions,  the
contact author will receive a paper number by e-mail. Using this paper number, you must then submit the  full  paper  by  February  16,  2004,  by
uploading the corresponding PDF or PostScript file (these are the only accepted formats), which should follow the templates or style files  indicated  by
the publisher (www.wkap.com/ifip/styles). Please preview the manuscript in a viewer to ensure its  integrity  before  submitting.  Make  sure  you
visually check uncommon fonts, symbols, equations, etc. A defective print can undermine your chances of success.
Papers submitted after February 16, 2004, or for which no abstract has been timely received, will be discarded without review.
Best Paper Awards: Awards will be handed over at the conference for the best paper and the best student paper.


Important dates

Abstract submission         9 February 2004
Full Paper submission       16 February 2004
Notification to authors     31 March 2004
Camera-ready                30 April 2004
