CARDIS 2012 – Call for Papers
-----------------------------
Eleventh Smart Card Research and Advanced Application Conference


Since 1994, CARDIS is the foremost international conference dedicated to smart card research and applications. Smart cards and secure elements are the basis for many secure systems and play a decisive role in ID management. Established computer science areas like hardware design, operating systems, system modeling, cryptography, verification and networking got adapted to this fast growing technology and investigate emerging issues resulting from it. Unlike events devoted to commercial and application aspects of smart cards, CARDIS conferences gather researchers and technologists who focus on all aspects of the design, development, deployment, validation and application of smart cards and secure elements in secure platforms or systems.
The eleventh Smart Card Research and Advanced Application Conference, organized by the Institute for Applied Information Processing and Communications (IAIK), Graz University of Technology, will be held in the Weitzer Hotel, Graz, Austria.
The program committee is seeking original papers on all aspects of smart cards and secure elements. Submissions across a broad range of the development phases are encouraged, from exploratory research and proof-of-concept studies to practical applications and deployment of smart cards and related technologies. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:
-        Software for secure embedded systems (operating systems, virtual machines, ... )
-        Hardware architectures for secure embedded systems
-        Security of RFID systems and sensor nodes
-        Security of mobile devices and applications
-        Efficient and secure implementations of cryptographic algorithms
-        Cryptographic protocols for embedded systems
-        Physical attacks and countermeasures
-        Secure applications for embedded systems
-        Embedded systems networking
-        Person representation in embedded systems
-        Formal modeling and formal proofs
-        Validation and certification of embedded systems and applications
-        Identity, privacy and trust issues
Authors are invited to submit papers (PDF or PS format) with novel contributions electronically using the submission form available on the following web site: http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cardis2012.
Submitted papers must be original, unpublished, anonymous and not submitted to journals or other conferences/workshops that have proceedings. Submissions must be written in English and should be at most 15 pages in total. Papers not meeting these guidelines risk rejection without consideration. All submissions will be blind-refereed.

Submission implies the willingness of at least one of the authors to register and present the paper. The proceedings will be published in the Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) series. Accepted papers should follow the LNCS default author instructions at http://www.springer.de/comp/lncs/authors.html.


Important dates - Extended
---------------

Submission of papers: *August 29th*, 2012, 23:59 GMT+02
Notification of acceptance: *October 17th*, 2012
Camera-ready version of papers for pre-proceedings: *November 12th*, 2012
Workshop date: November 28–30, 2012
Final version of papers: December 17, 2012


Program Committee
-----------------
N. Asokan,  Nokia Research Center, Finland
Gildas Avoine,  UCL, Belgium
Chetali Boutheina,  Trusted Labs, France
Josep Domingo Ferrer,  Rovari i Virgili University, Catalonia
Hermann Drexler,  Giesecke & Devrient, Germany
Martin Feldhofer,  NXP, Austria
Berndt Gammel,  Infineon, Germany
Tim Güneysu,  Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany
Helena Handschuh,  Cryptography Research Inc., USA and KU Leuven, Belgium
Michael Hutter,  TU Graz, Austria
Marc Joye,  Technicolor, France
Ioannis Krontiris,  Göthe Universität Frankfurt, Germany
Jean-Louis Lanet,  University of Limoges, France
Konstantinos Markantonakis,  Royal Holloway, UK
Andrew Martin,  University of Oxford, UK
David Naccache,  ENS, France
Elisabeth Oswald,  University of Bristol, UK
Catuscia Palamidessi,  INRIA, France
Eric Peeters,  Texas Instruments, USA
Erik Poll,  RU Nijmegen, Netherlands
Bart Preneel,  KU Leuven, Belgium
Emmanuel Prouff,  ANSSI, France
Matthieu Rivain,  CryptoExperts, France
Pankaj Rohatgi,  Cryptography Research, USA
Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi,  TU Darmstadt, Germany
Jean-Pierre Seifert,  TU Berlin, Germany
Sergei Skorobogatov,  Cambridge University, UK
François-Xavier Standaert,  UCL, Belgium
Frederic Stumpf,  Fraunhofer AISEC, Germany
Marc Witteman,  Riscure, Netherlands


Organizational Committee
------------------------
Stefan Mangard
(Program Chair)
Infineon Technologies, Germany
Email: Stefan.Mangard AT infineon.com

Jörn-Marc Schmidt
(General Chair)
Graz University of Technology, Austria
Email: joern-marc.schmidt AT iaik.tugraz.at

Jean-Jacques Quisquater
(Publicity Chair)
Université catholique de Louvain, Belgium
Email: jjq AT uclouvain.be